Understood.
The target is mine.
Do not hold back! However I will…
My mission is what matters. Not you.
Outsider encountered. Neutralizing threat.
Try to resist... your inevitable fate.
All I have to say is, 'die'.
Do your best. Just know, I shall not hold back.
Separate
Part
Deploy
A storm is coming!
It's over
Game over.
Don't move!
Disappear.
Not a chance.
Leave!
Fear my blade!
This will hurt.
I know your game.
Weak.
You failed.
You are done!
Show me your strength!
Is that all you have?
Take this.
Engaging.
How about this?
Maintain order.
Scarlet Sleeve!
I have you.
Nuisance!
Rue your weakness!
Gallatin Eclipse!
Is that all?
Crumble!
Order... must prevail!
Roar for me... Arondight!
Obvious!
Useless!
Time for a test.
You cannot resist.
I thought so.
So naive.
Try avoiding this!
Increasing speed.
Well, what now?
Shift into counter attack.
I shall end end this!
I shall succeed!
Not quite!
I shall not concede!
Reckless!
Come at me, outsider!
You shall not leave alive!
You'll pay for all you've done!
I have no information about this.
That hairstyle needs investigating.
Pay with your life!
Damn you!
You will regret this!
Reflect on your ignorance!
This is it!
You are finished!
Get out... of my sight.
You shall... be destroyed!
You cannot beat... my strength!
To fight the azure knight... You must surpass me!
No... mercy!
This, too is my mission!
Special attack!
Evade!
Surely not.
What?
It can't be!
Unexpected.
I must endure.
Going in.
This won't happen again!
Happy now?!
Unbelievable.
Such power.
You outsider!
Die, Azwel!
Nimue's Embrace!
Sire Balin's Swords
Astolat's Echo!
Insurgent!
Coup de main!
Speed up!
Endless!
Go forth, Guilt Seeker!
I see you are a threat.
I'm not done yet.
I shall give all I have.
Futile. Cease this now.
I have... the answer!
Wretch... What are you?
What? Is that it?
You will be erased!
Allow me to demonstrate.
It ends here!
Chevalier Mal Fet!
Curse your weakness.
Stand up!
As reported.
Traitor!
Atone for the sin of weakness.
Not bad. You still have a way to go.
Extermination complete. Proceeding to the next mission.
My information is sound. No surprises here.
Begone. You are no threat to me.
You should be pleased I saw you as a threat.
Rot away. Your fate is decided.
You shall be judged... in Hell.
You've become stronger. It is well to shout out your attack names, but there are risks. First... it interrupts your breathing, which can be dangerous. It also alerts the opponent to the technique you will use. The greatest risk is it may disrupt your concentration, which-- ...Hey. Are you listening? Why are you laughing?!
Let order seep into your soul.
I concede.
I did not expect this outcome.
You were the one.
I lost... to you?!
Your existence is a danger...
I am not going to win like this...
Hmph. Win or lose, I don't care. I'm here...because I despise you. That's it!
The rest is in your hands.
Ngh... Kill me!
Forgive me.
Outsiders are evil, for that they must die.
Endless quest!
The path, to Avalon!
I care not for my seat in the twelve.
The mysterious Aval Organization was a secret group with origins rooted in ancient times. They say the group came to be when a king used the spirit sword to defeat its cursed counterpart, and with his dying breath, entrusted them with both the blade and his unfinished mission. Each new generation has taken on the group’s mission to rid the world of "Outsiders"—those connected with the cursed sword.

One such member was Grøh, about whom little is known save for that he was a fearsome warrior. Though his fighting style is shrouded in mystery, he is believed to have wielded two swords. Some also say he kept a certain technique close to his chest…

The Aval Organization’s top priority was terminating the wielder of Soul Edge, Nightmare. Even though they employed the ace up their sleeve in the form of Grøh, he was unable to accomplish his mission. Deeply wounded, he was pushed to the brink of death—the blow from Soul Edge had resulted in his soul being half-consumed by evil. And yet, he thought, perhaps he could use his terrible fate to fulfill his mission… He would control the evil within him, and only ever unleash it to the extent that he could maintain a grip on his own consciousness. Then, when his mission was complete, he would take his own life.

It was cold yet logical path, the only way he could envisage going forward. He would fight fire with fire. Unfortunately, righteousness can manifest itself in the cruelest of ways. When his friend was transformed into a Malfested, Grøh had no choice but to end his life with his own two hands. With the organization having fallen into chaos. Grøh felt the burden of responsibility squarely on his own shoulders. If only he had been able to subdue Nightmare, and do something about Azwel’s secession… And yet, despite his belief in the organization, the organization in return would never recognize him as one of their own, because the evil in his body made him an “Outsider.” He had to keep his condition a secret, or fearing losing his life.

Maintaining a delicate relationship with the Aval Organization, Grøh vowed to succeed in his latest mission: terminating Azwel…

With other members from the Aval Organization, Grøh followed Kilik and his companions as they headed west to face Nightmare. While the monk was alone, the warrior in black fought Kilik to test his strength. When Kilik seemingly passed the test, Grøh gave him information that Nightmare was based in Ostrheinsburg, and that Soul Edge was growing stronger. He then took his leave as Xianghua was approaching.

Later, when Kilik, Xianghua and Maxi were ambushed by Astaroth, Grøh arrived and offered to guide the first two to Ostrheinsburg. He then departed from them as they were about to enter the room where Nightmare was waiting.

Other Soul Chronicles
Just when Soul Edge was about to regain all of its power, Grøh infiltrated Ostrheinsburg but was caught by Astaroth. He lost to the golem and was forced to retreat.

Libra of Soul
Sometime after Azwel’s betrayal to the Aval Organization, Grøh pursued him to the east and encountered the Conduit and sensed their unusual powers. He then ordered Dion and Natalie to keep an eye on them. But Grøh ended up working alongside the Conduit to close many astral fissures scattered throughout Asia and Europe. Although they found Azwel in Fygul Cestemus’ underground temple, the researcher managed to escape and Grøh was ordered to find Kilik and attest his power.

After completing his mission, he rejoined the Conduit in Athens and found Azwel as he was about to unleash his Ultimate Seed. When his ally was defeated, Grøh unleashed his Malfestation and fought Azwel. The battle ended when the two of them fell into a deep ravine. Because he was Malfested, Grøh was considered an Outsider by the Aval Organization.

Over the next year, Grøh roamed the land as the Black Demon. He was eventually confronted by the Conduit, who made a promise to stop him if he became Malfested. Grøh’s fate is determined by two factors: the direction in which the Conduit’s spirit scale is leaning towards, and the sword they used to defeat Azwel. Grøh will either die by the Conduit’s hands and will be buried, or will be spared and makes a promise to his comrade to use his powers for good.

Grøh is usually a taciturn young man who is all about business, carrying out orders and missions with unwavering conviction. Despite his standoff-ish nature, he is not without emotion or compassion for others, particularly his allies Natalie and Dion and later the protagonist of Libra of Soul and served as a hero and inspiration to Aval as a whole. His relationship with the protagonist of Libra of Soul is noticeably much stronger; while initially suspicious of them, he grows to respect them, ultimately revealing to them not only his longing for home, but his most closely guarded secret of possessing malfested power, entrusting them to kill him should he lose his sanity. While Grøh hates outsiders, he is willing to test them to see whether or not they retain any shred of humanity. Grøh's usual business demeanor fades away completely whenever confronted with Azwel, his quiet tone erupting almost immediately into seething rage and contempt, ever since the incident involving the death of Curtis and the Aval’s leader Orzal. This anger manifests itself when Grøh willingly compromises his will in order to strike the said traitor down personally.

In the Good ending of Libra of Soul, Grøh feels indebted and very grateful towards the Conduit for saving him and hopes to live by their example to use his powers for something other than simply completing missions.

Aerondight Replica
Arondight, lauded as the pride of all knights, was wielded by many champions, and its power allowed them to achieve great deeds in battle. Alas, the sword has long been lost, and the one Grøh wield is an extremely well-made replica. That being said, it was forged using superlative techniques, and its sharpness equals if not surpasses the original.

The Aval Organization keeps many replicas of legendary swords such as Arondight, but insists that only one replica per sword be made. This is to ensure the swords remain symbols of the organization’s creed, pride, and glory. Accordingly, only the warriors whom the organization considers the best of the best to wield them. Arondight itself was bestowed upon Grøh by Orzal, the one who taught him swordsmanship.

Grøh’s dedication to his studies and training earned him a place as one of Aval’s Twelve. However, after his failure to deal with the Azure Knight, he lost his position within the organization. The infighting in Aval has delayed his punishment for now, and if Grøh hopes to protect his right to wield Arondight, he needs to once again prove just how strong he is.

Aval Dual-Swordsmanship
One of the fighting styles used by the Aval Organization’s combat personnel.

In the Middle Ages, most of the organization’s knights wore heavy armor, and primarily made use of shield, lance, and long sword techniques. However, as time passed and the organization transitioned into a secret society, the armor and weaponry became lighter, and the techniques more practical for agents engaged in clandestine operations. The ideal for Aval’s unique weaponry and fighting style dates to this transitional phase, and the style underwent multiple revisions before reaching its final form.

Unlike standard sword styles, Aval’s twinblade swordsmanship often employs multiple consecutive slashes. This has a major disadvantage in that a careless practitioner runs the risk of injuring themselves. As such, it takes a lot of practice to use this style effectively. Aval twinblade swordsmanship also allows for the swords to be split in two and wielded separately. This tactic is one of the many ways a wielder can use to surprise their opponent, giving them the opportunity to string together a series of blows that lead to a final, deadly slash.

Grøh disliked just one thing about Aval’s signature fighting style, and that was that its moves were never named. Therefore, he decided to come up with his own. The more conservative members of the organization objected, but Grøh was able to win them over in a few ways. First, he explained that names would allow the techniques to be passed on more easily. Second, by writing an extraordinarily detailed text describing the moves, and thirdly, by extensively researching appropriate names based on the Aval Organization’s deep-rooted traditions. In battle, he often shouts out a technique’s name, in the hopes that nearby allies may better learn and appreciate them.

Chevalier Mal Fet: Grøh performs a unveil move on his left eye, and does a overhead slash, shouting "You will be erased!". He then throws his saber at the opponent, teleports on him, slashes the target with double sabers, exclaiming "It ends here!". Uniting the sabers and charging with his malfested power, he chants "Chevalier...", stabs the opponent and do a upward slash, finishing the recite "...Mal Fet!". The move does 9 hits and its an easy-to-use critical edge that balances versatility and reach. It can be used in air combos, and to punish enemy when missed an attack. This move is mainly useful for increasing combo damage. More notably, it deals increases greatly during soul charge.
